Global Protect

it is branding used to consolidate Palo Alto's VPN offerings and more. Global protect automatically determines the closest gateway to the client and establishes secure connections.

 
Global protect has three main components:

The GlobalProtect portal 
Global protect gateways
Global protect Client software


Global Protect portal
	which helps to manage functions for GlobalProtect infrastructure 

Global protect gateway
	Provide security enforcement for traffic from gloablprotect agents and apps

Gloabl protect client
	runs on users devices and enables access to globalprotect infrastructure


The portal may provide an IP address or DNS hostname to the client that allows the client to determine if it is on an internal or external network.	

the client will perform reverse DNS lookup on the provided IP address looking for the DNS hostname and the DNS hostname should only be resolved using internal DNS server. 

	if a response is received, the client will connect to an internal gateway.
	if a response is not received, the client will be connect to the external gateway.

Clientless VPN

It provides secure access to enterprise web application without exposing them to the general internet.

Globalprotect Supports three types of connection method

On-Demand, User-login, Pre-logon 


On-Demand = The user chooses when to establish a connection.
User-login = Automatically establish connection after user login. Single Sign-on (SSO) uses the Windows Credentials to connect to the portal.;
Pre-Logon = Establish connection before user login by means of machine certificates.

GloablProtect gateway is to provide an endpoint for an agent's connection. 
Now here we talk about external and internal gateway. In internal gateway we don't require a tunnel but maybe configured to use one. Incase of external gateway, we do need gateway to protect user traffic.

When user logs into GlobalProtect Agent app, this login information is added the User-ID mapping table for visibility and security policy enforcement.

 
